---
title: Caching Proxy for APIs
author: oskarjerzyk
keywords: tutorial
date: 2019-10-21
layout: tutorial
knotxVersions:
    - 2.0.0
---
# Overview
In this tutorial, we will use Knot.x as API gateway providing additional caching functionality. Knot.x will expose a proxy API to the target one.
The caching functionality can be implemented in a custom handler. Then we expose our custom handler in Open API specification. However, this approach requires development effort. But what if we would need to add a circuit breaker mechanism in future.

To get as much as you can from this tutorial, it's highly recommended to get familiar with previous:
- [Getting started with Knot.x Stack](http://knotx.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-knotx-stack/2_0/)
- [Getting Started with Docker](http://knotx.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-docker/2_0/)
- [Configurable API gateway](http://knotx.io/tutorials/configurable-api-gateway/2_0/)

## Prerequisites
- JDK 8
- Docker
- Docker Swarm

## What you're going to learn:
- How to wrap an existing (target) API with caching proxy
- How to use [behaviours](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/tree/2.0.0/handler#behaviours) and [actions](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/tree/2.0.0/handler#actions)

Download the [Latest Knot.x Starter Kit release](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit/releases) and unzip it.

Project has the following structure:
```
├── docker
|   ├── Dockerfile                // Docker file with image definition.
├── functional                    // Keep here your functional tests. Example implementation included
├── gradle                        // Gradle wrapper and common gradle scripts
├── knotx/conf                    // Knotx configuration which will be copied to docker image
├── modules                       // Sub-modules of your project
│   ├── ...                       // example modules implementation
```

## Project configuration
The first thing we need to do is to specify configuration files. Let's start in the project level directory and simply create `api-cache.yml`
Let's specify the following configuration:
``` yml
version: '3.7'

networks:
  knotnet:

services:

  webapi:
    image: rodolpheche/wiremock
    volumes:
      - "./common-services/webapi:/home/wiremock"
    ports:
      - "3000:8080"
    networks:
      - knotnet

  knotx:
    image: knotx-example/api-cache:latest
    command: ["knotx", "run-knotx"]
    ports:
      - "8092:8092"
      - "18092:18092"
    networks:
      - knotnet
```

First and foremost it specifies Docker virtual network in which our services will be deployed. Then we have some service configs.
The first one is `webapi`
- `image` - docker image is provided here, 
- `volumes` - directories to which Docker will have access, in our case it's directory where all Wiremock configs are stored,
- `ports` - on the left side is provided port accessible from `localhost`, and on the right side we have port number available in virtual environment 
- `networks` - specifies in which docker network, service will be deployed.

Then we have `knotx` service specification, it's very similar to previous one, so only one property is worth to explain 
- `command` - this property is used to point Knot.x starting commands.

Next step in our configuration is to properly set up `settings.gradle.kts` (also at the project level directory) 
```gradle
rootProject.name = "api-cache"

include("health-check")

project(":health-check").projectDir = file("modules/health-check")
``` 

Here we have to specify project name, and packages to be included in this project. 

Next thing to do is to configure `gradle.properties` at project level directory. Let's fill it with
```gradle
version=2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
knotx.version=2.0.0
knotx.conf=knotx
docker.image.name=knotx-example/api-cache
```
Very important step here is to set `docker.image.name`, which is necessary to run proper docker image.

`build.gradle.kts` file could stay as it was provided with starterkit, we don't have to apply any modifications here.
The same if it comes to `./docker/Dockerfile`, version provided by default is absolutely enough for our purposes.

## Modules
Now we can focus on modules - with starterkit some are provided. Very important is `health-check`. Role of this module is quite 
self explanatory, we were pointing it in one of the previous files to be included in project image.
In our case we don't need to prepare custom modules with custom business logic, instead of it we'll create Knot.x configs, 
which will set up cache ability in our project.

## Knot.x configs
The first thing to do here is to fill `./knotx/conf/openapi.yaml`. it contains project-specific API definitions using the [OpenAPI 3.0 specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md) syntax. 
Let's fill it out with:
```yaml
openapi: "3.0.0"
info:
  version: 1.0.0
  title: Knot.x Gateway API Example
  description: Knot.x Gateway API Example

servers:
  - url: https://{domain}:{port}
    description: The local API server
    variables:
      domain:
        default: localhost
        description: api domain
      port:
        enum:
          - '8092'
        default: '8092'

paths:
  /healthcheck:
    get:
      operationId: healthcheck-operation
      responses:
        default:
          description: example vert.x healthcheck

  /product/id:
    get:
      operationId: example-cacheable-api-operation
      responses:
        default:
          description: Example product with cache operation
```
This is whole structure of this file required in our case. In more detail it was explained in [this tutorial](http://knotx.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-knotx-stack/2_0/) 
The most important part for us is `paths`. There we have endpoints specification. `/product/id` is the endpoint which we'll call
and cache response from it. `operationId` field specifies which operation should be executed when endpoint is called, 
in our case it will be `example-cacheable-api-operation`. Now we can focus on it and configure everything, what's necessary to achieve proper behaviour
of our endpoint. 

#### Logger configuration
There is one additional step to improve our work with Docker, we can setup logger properly to get better stack trace when
an error occurs. To do it just go to `knotx/conf/logback.xml` and replace default `configuration` tag with:

```xml
<configuration>
  <property name="LOG_PATH" value="/var/log/knotx"/>

  <include resource="io/knotx/logging/logback/defaults.xml"/>
  <include resource="io/knotx/logging/logback/file-appender.xml"/>
  <include resource="io/knotx/logging/logback/access.xml"/>

  <appender name="CONSOLE" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <layout class="ch.qos.logback.classic.PatternLayout">
      <Pattern>
        %d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n
      </Pattern>
    </layout>
  </appender>

  <logger name="io.knotx" level="TRACE"/>
  <logger name="io.vertx" level="DEBUG"/>
  <logger name="com.codahale.metrics" level="TRACE"/>

  <root level="TRACE">
    <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
  </root>
</configuration>
``` 

## Operations configuration
Now we have to configure `knotx/conf/routes/operations.conf`. To get more familiar with it please check out [this tutorial](http://knotx.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-knotx-stack/2_0/).
In our config we should have define two operations:
- `healthcheck-operation`
- `example-cacheable-api-operation`

This operations are connected with `openapi.yaml`. As you remember, all endpoint definitions are connected with proper operations.
According to it let's fill `knotx/conf/routes/operations.conf` with following:
```hocon
routingOperations = ${routingOperations} [
  {
    operationId = example-cacheable-api-operation
    handlers = ${config.server.handlers.common.request} [
      {
        name = singleFragmentSupplier
        config = {
          type = json
          configuration {
            data-knotx-task = api-task
          }
        }
      },
      {
        name = fragmentsHandler
        config = { include required(classpath("routes/handlers/fragments-handler.conf")) }
      },
      {
        name = fragmentsAssembler
      }
    ] ${config.server.handlers.common.response}
  }
  {
    operationId = healthcheck-operation
    handlers = [
      {
        name = healthcheck
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

Here we have defined all routing operations used in our tutorial, for us important is `example-cacheable-api-operation`.
First thing we should focus on is `handlers` array, there we can specify which handlers should be used to process our 
request. In our case, first handler to be called is `singleFragmentSupplier`. It's used to convert incoming http request
into `knotx-fragment` and assign `data-knotx-task` to it, task definition will be provided soon. Next to be called is
`fragmentsHandler`, here we have to attach additional configs with tasks specification. The last one is `fragmentsAssembler`
Purpose of using it, is to combine all fragments into final response.

## Handlers definition
Last thing to do, is to define custom handler. As mentioned above it will be `fragments-handler`.
To do it let's remove from `knotx/conf/routes/handlers/` all handlers provided by default and create in this directory file
`fragments-handler.conf` with following structure:
```hocon
tasks {
  api-task {
    action = fetch-product-with-cache
      onTransitions {
        _success {
          action = product-to-body
        }
    }
  }
}

actions {
  fetch-product-with-cache {
    factory = in-memory-cache
    config {
      cache {
        maximumSize = 1000
        ttl = 5000
      }
      cacheKey = "product-{param.id}"
      payloadKey = fetch-product
    }
    doAction = fetch-product
  }

  product-to-body {
    factory = payload-to-body
    config {
      key = fetch-product
    }
  }

  fetch-product {
    factory = http
    config {
      endpointOptions {
        path = /product/id
        domain = webapi
        port = 8080
        allowedRequestHeaders = ["Content-Type"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

At the top of this file we have tasks definition, our config contains of only one task which is `api-task`. There we point some 
actions to be executed. The first one is `fetch-product-with-cache` - it's used to call API and cache response from it. 
The second one which is located in `onTransitions` section will be executed only if previous finished with success, so
when `fetch-product-with-cache` succeeded `product-to-body` will be also invoked.

Now we can focus on `actions`. Here we have definitions of all mentioned above. `fetch-product-with-cache` will be called as the first one.
Very important is property `factory` - it points which factory should be used to execute this action - `in-memory-cache`
is quite self explanatory, it simply handles caching features. Then caching configs are provided, one of them is really important - 
`payloadKey` - we'll use it to inject payload into body in last action in processing chain. Last property in this action definition 
is `doAction` - it points which action will be wrapped by this one, in our case it is 'fetch-product'. This action uses
`http` factory and simply call desired endpoint. 

When all of above will succeed `product-to-body` will be called and request will be finally properly assembled. To do it
we'll use `payload-to-body` factory, moreover we're pointing here `key = fetch-product`, as I mentioned above this depending 
of this value, proper payload will be injected here.

## Wiremock 
Wiremock is simply used for mocking server, we don't have to create real REST API, for our training purposes it's enough.
To do it let's create following directories on the project level directory:
- `common-services/webapi/__files/`
- `common-services/webapi/mappings/`

Into first directory please paste `product.json` file with following body:
```json
{
  "id": 21762532,
  "url": "http://knotx.io",
  "label": "Product"
}
```

And into second directory please paste `product.json` file with following body:
```json
{
  "request": {
    "method": "GET",
    "url": "/product/id"
  },
  "response": {
    "status": 200,
    "fixedDelayMilliseconds": 100,
    "bodyFileName": "product.json"
  }
}
```

Make sure that in `api-cache.yml` property `volume` properly points to `webapi` directory.

## Build and run
From project level directory execute following commands:
```shell script
gradlew clean build
docker swarm init
docker stack deploy -c api-cache.yml api-cache
```
After successful execution you should be able to see http response at [localhost:8092/product/id](localhost:8092/product/id)

